# METaL

As described above; METaL is our protocol level interface for clients to create and manage events that will be delivered with the assistance of the Aventus Protocol. It provides a simple front end interface which enables users to create events and manage events, add tickets, cancel tickets and distribute them to event attendees. Finally, it also allows users to generate a doorlist for access control purposes.

<aside class="notice">
As of now, this section is a placeholder. As we update our products this section will be filled.
</aside>

# Aventus Tickets

On the Aventus Protocol - a ticket consists of specific pieces of data; some unique data used to identify and reference the ticket, and some metadata used by applications like the ticket wallet.

Before tickets are written to the blockchain (either via our scaling service or directly) they exist in a preliminary stage as a hyperlink created by METaL to be loaded (or claimed) by a ticket wallet. Firstly, we'll define the content of a ticket link generated by METaL, then the definition of a merkle leaf ticket once opened by a wallet.

<aside class="notice">
For the current purposes of what we're doing right now, we have two kinds of ticket. A blockchain ticket, and a merkle leaf (one that is using our scaling solution, Modest) ticket. All tickets that we will produce start off as merkle leaf tickets.
</aside>

## Ticket Links

The unique data inside of a ticket link consists of a vendor reference and an event ID. Metadata consists of everything else, i.e. other data that is relevant to the event itself.

It is important to note that the Protocol has no opinion on what is inside of a ticket, it is up to clients to enforce and parse what a ticket really contains. With that in mind, it is possible to understand what extra pieces of metadata you may want to include inside of a ticket. It is not limited to what is below, but remember whatever client you build needs to be able to understand the JSON object structure below.

Specifically, it is the combination of the vendorReference and eventId is what makes a ticket unique.

The combination of the above, and ticketMeta (metadata, in our case, any other information that is stored in a ticket, such as venue, seat, gate, email, etc)

Parameter | Type | Description
--------- | ------- | -----------
eventId* | string  | a unique identifier used to reference an event on the Aventus Protocol
vendorReference*  |  string | a unique identifier used to tie an event to a vendor (Primary)
email*  |  string | **metadata**: customer email address
payload*  | string  |  **metadata**: provided by METaL
secret*  | string  |  **metadata**: provided by METaL
link*  | string  |  **metadata**: the link generated by METaL for use of a ticket in the Wallet.

<aside class="notice">
* indicates a required field
</aside>

```JSON
{
    "vendorReference": "ref 1543005210191",
    "eventId": "3",
    "payload": "payload",
    "email": "customer2@aventus.io",
    "secret": "7b52931c-e1a9-4b7d-bf06-c2f0d9562d3a",
    "link": "artos.ticketwallet://+?payload=W3siZXZlbnRJZCI6IjUiLCJ0aWNrZXRSZWZlcmVuY2UiOiJyZWYgMTU0MzAwNTIxMDE5MSIsInBheWxvYWQiOiJ7c29tZVN0dWZmV2hhdGV2ZXJGb3JtYXRQYXlsb2FkfSIsImRhdGFTaWduYXR1cmUiOiIweDE2MGRlMjIzNDc1NmY0MWNlYzU1MDZmNGZjZWUxZTg3MTUzNmYwZmI3YWVlN2EyMDE4ZmJjODdjOWRhNzNiZmM3Zjg5ZDQ0MDA2ZDAzN2Y5YmEzZTc0NmIxNDIzMTJiNWU5Nzc1MTRkZDAwNjlhNDUwODdlNDRmZGY1Y2VhNmM2MDEiLCJzZWNyZXQiOiJNeSBhbWF6aW5nIHNlY3JldCIsInNlY3JldFNpZ25hdHVyZSI6IjB4YzY5MWUyMTdhOTZlNGVhZTQ5MDhmYzM4MjlmNGVmNDk0MDBlNDc1MGIxNzZmMWJiMDhlYWE3MjM2NTkzOTJjNDY3NTZhMGMzODQ0Yzk0NTEwZTkxNDdjYjllZDhiOWY0Yjc2MGJlZGM2YjZiNTJhOWM0MTMyMDA5ODAyNTk1YjMwMCJ9XQ==",
    "status": "sent"
  },
```

In terms of what a ticket looks like as a JSON object, see right (or above, if on mobile).
